NAME  : Daleel AlHamid
Nationality; Syrian
DOB: 7/7/1980
BACK GROUND: PETROL ENGINEER
CONTACT PHONE NUMBER: 00963999491537

Adress: deir ezzor/ mayaden/ altayyani village
English level: fluent
Current employer: AL FURAT PETROLEUM COMPANY ( SHELL SYRIA)
POSITION: WELL SERVICE SUPERVISOR

          PROFILE:
I studied Petroleum Engineering in syria from1998 to 2003 and graduated as master ofpetrol engineer 
I was employed in 2005 by the Syrian Production Company as a Work over supervisor. 
I transferred to the Al Furat Petroleum company, which is a joint venture between SPC and Shell Exploration and Production as a Well Services supervisor. 
I am married with three3 children and live in Mayadin in Syria.

I am interested to broaden my experience and knowledge in Well activities by working in other operations and companies through out the world . I feel that my work with Shell Exploration & Production through AFPC, and the experience I have gained through working with Shell colleagues, along with my own skills and knowledge will be beneficial to any future employer.  

Responsibilities:
As a Well Service Supervisor, my duties include supervising all these intervention activities, including:

Wireline activities
Downhole data gathering
Flow control including plugs, SSD’s and gas lift operations
Downhole maintenance.
Fishing operations
Well Control
Coil Tubing
N2 lift operations
Matrix stimulations
Scale removal
Milling and clean up operations
Reservoir Fracing
Displace well to diesel
Electric Line
Logging
Perforation
Water shut off
Well control
Artificial lift
Installation of beam pumps
Beam pump maintenance and trouble shooting
Pull and run suker rods
Xmas tree & wellheads
Xmas tree and wellhead installation
Xmas tree maintenance and trouble shooting
Well Test
Rig up
 Monitor
 Gathering   date.
Audit 
Completions
Workshop preparation of completion equipment.
Rig site supervision of completion running and pulling.
Completions include Packer and cemented completions, beam pump wells, ESP’s and gas lift wells.
Well integrity
HS&E
Responsible for permit to work on all well intervention activities including:
Gas tester
NORM (Radioactivity)
H2S 
1ST Aid
Firefighting
 BSC British safety council Diploma .
As the supervisor, my responsibilities also include man power and equipment planning for each of these jobs, as well as compiling end of job reports, performance reports 


                            
                                       

